Caring for the needs of my family is a source of great joy.
That was the life that was.
One drunk driver and my wife was gone.
Our two children had lost their loving mother.
The doctors were hopeful that my son might regain the use of his legs.
But in the meantime, we needed to adjust to this new situation.
My mum was such a support both emotionally and practically.
She helped with the children whilst I went to work.
That way I was able to care for the family's physical needs.
It wasn't easy.
I don't know what I would have done without her.
My fellow elders were loving and considerate too.
They offered to lighten some of my congregation responsibilities.
But I just wanted to keep busy.
I tried to keep on top of everything.
But spiritually things began to slip.
On more than one occasion, I had to ask others to cover my meeting parts.
Hello.
Hi Simon.
Oh hi I'm so sorry.
I've been held up at work again.
Could you cover the treasure's item for me tonight?
I'll see what I can do.
Thank you.
I was just too tired to prepare for family worship.
And the results were obvious.
Everything seemed overwhelming.
Even the simple things were a struggle.
The meeting was great.
But that...
It's demonstration tonight.
Oh sorry.
Something had to give.
Maybe I needed to step aside as an elder.
I needed help.
So I reached out to a good friend, Simon.
I explained everything.
He really listened.
He empathised and commended me for my efforts.
Then shared Philippians one, ten with me.
That you may make sure of the more important things.
Oliver, it's especially during challenging times
that we need to make sure of the important things.
And the key to doing that is balance.
Come over here.
Simon used a simple illustration that changed my perspective.
Just as a wheel can be out of balance.
A sudden change in our circumstances can put us out of balance.
But skilled mechanics can use small weights to rebalance the wheel.
The machine told Simon where to position the small weight
so that the wheel could run smoothly again.
I got the point.
Regaining balance might not involve big changes.
Just a few smaller ones.
Balance comes when we exercise faith.
Hebrews 116 reminded me that Jehovah is the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.
And James 317 says,
The wisdom from above is reasonable.
I realise that my family's spiritual needs are one of the more important things.
And it's okay to ask others for support.
Applying these Bible principles helped me regain my joy.
Our circumstances may change,
but our Christian priorities do not.
They keep us anchored to our living hope.
Thanks to Jehovah,
I was able to provide for my own in the most important ways.